Update README and include FAQ section (#6)
EXASOL/docker-db: README.md

> [!WARNING]
> Please note that this is an open source project that is __not officially supported__ by Exasol.
> We will try to help you as much as possible, but can't guarantee anything since this is not an official Exasol product.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Please note that the underlying base image for the Exasol 7.1 Docker image is CentOS 7, that has reached its end-of-life (EOL).

Reviewer: which proceeded by comma usually
that almost always with out preceding comma
```suggestion
> Please note that the underlying base image for the Exasol 7.1 Docker image is CentOS 7 and that has reached its end-of-life (EOL).
```

> > Consequently, official support for CentOS 7 is no longer available. __Please use Exasol 2025 or later__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Consequently, official support for docker-db 7 is no longer available. __Please use Exasol 2025 or later__.
```

```

In this example port 8563 (within the container) is exposed on the local port 9563. Use this port to connect to the DB.

## Making the Data of a Container Persistent

All data, configuration and logfiles of an Exasol container are stored below `/exa`. With the command above, this data is lost when the container is removed. However, you can make it persistent by mounting a volume into the container at `/exa`, for example:

```shell
docker run --name exasoldb  -p 127.0.0.1:9563:8563 --detach --privileged --stop-timeout 120 -v exa_volume:/exa exasol/docker-db:<version>
```

See [the Docker volumes documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/) for more examples on how to create and manage persistent volumes.

## Stopping an Exasol Container

It is important to make sure that the database has been shut down correctly before stopping a container. A high stop-timeout (see example above) increases the chance that the DB can be shut down gracefully before the container is stopped, but it's not guaranteed. It's better to stop the DB manually by executing the following command within the container (after attaching to it):

```shell

> dwad_client stop-wait DB1

Reviewer 2: Is it still called "DB1" in v8 and 2025? Don't want to test right now.

Exasol is a high-performance, in-memory, MPP database specifically designed for analytics. 
This repository contains a dockerized version of the Exasol DB for testing purposes.

> The dockerized version of Exasol in this repository can be used with up to 10GiB of data. If you need more, please get in contact with us via https://exasol.com/get-in-touch.

Reviewer 2: "Exasol in this repository" is not really true any more, yes?

Your use of this repository is subject to the [Exasol Terms & Conditions](https://www.exasol.com/terms-and-conditions)

Currently supported features:

- create / start / stop a database in a virtual cluster
- use the UDF framework
- expose ports from containers on the local host
- update the virtual cluster
- create backups on archive volumes

# Table of contents

> ❓ [Frequently asked Questions](FAQ.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
❓ [Frequently asked questions](FAQ.md)
```

📝 [System Requirements](#system-requirements)

💡 [Recommendations](#recommendations)

> 📦 [Creating a stand-alone Exasol container (`docker run`)](#creating-a-stand-alone-exasol-container)

Reviewer: 😣 won't mark it as it's quite a few more comments, but I find the capitalization convention for the sections in FAQ.md confusing & here's another one 🍀 😀 

Maybe as its new the FAQ.md should be adapted to this capitalization convention?

Author: I will adapt the readme to our standard. Good point.

# Recommendations
 
## Performance optimization

We strongly recommend setting the CPU governor on the host to `performance`, to avoid serious performance problems. There are various tools to do that, depending on your distribution. Usually, the following command works:

```sh
for F in /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpufreq/scaling_governor; do echo performance >$F; done
```

## Hugepages

We recommend enabling hugepages for hosts with at least 64GB RAM. To do so, you have to set the `Hugepages` option in EXAConf to either `auto`, `host` or the number of hugepages per container. 

If you set it `auto`, the number of hugepages will be determined automatically, depending on the DB settings. 

When setting it to `host` the number of hugepages from the host system will be used (i.e., `/proc/sys/vm/nr_hugepages` will not be changed). However, `/proc/sys/vm/hugetlb_shm_group` will always be set to an internal value!
 
## Resource limitation

It's possible to limit the resources of your Exasol container with the following `docker run` options: 

> ```sh

Reviewer 2: add empty line above

docker run --cpuset-cpus="1,2,3,4" --memory=20g --memory-swap=20g --memory-reservation=10g exasol/docker-db:<version>

> ```

Reviewer 2: add empty line below

### Services

Make sure that **NTP** is configured correctly on the host. Also, the **RNG** daemon must be running to provide enough entropy for the Exasol services in the container.       

# Recommendations
 
## Performance optimization

We strongly recommend setting the CPU governor on the host to `performance`, to avoid serious performance problems. There are various tools to do that, depending on your distribution. Usually, the following command works:

```shell
for F in /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpufreq/scaling_governor; do echo performance >$F; done
```

## Hugepages

> We recommend enabling hugepages for hosts with at least 64GB RAM. To do so, you have to set the `Hugepages` option in EXAConf to either `auto`, `host` or the number of hugepages per container. 

Reviewer: 🥳 (nothing to do) happy for the  `In order to do so` -> `To do so` changes

> If you set it `auto`, the number of hugepages will be determined automatically, depending on the DB settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set it to `auto`, the number of hugepages will be determined automatically, depending on the DB settings. 
```

    The cluster is started by creating all containers individually and passing each of them its ID from the EXAConf. For `n11` the command would be:
    
    ```shell
    docker run --detach --network=host --privileged -v "$CONTAINER_EXA:/exa" exasol/docker-db:<version> init-sc --node-id 11
    ```
    
    > [!NOTE] 
    > This example uses the host network stack, i.e., the containers are directly accessing a host interface to connect to each other. There is no need to expose ports in this mode: they are all accessible on the host.**
 
# Managing Disks and Devices
 
All EXAStorage devices have to be located below `/exa/data/storage/` (within the container). 

## Creating EXAStorage File Devices

You can create file devices by executing (**on each node**):

```shell
truncate -s 1G "$CONTAINER_EXA/data/storage/dev.2"
```

or (alternatively):

```shell
dd if=/dev/zero of="$CONTAINER_EXA/data/storage/dev.2" bs=1M count=1 seek=999
```

This will create a sparse file of 1GB (1000 blocks of 1 MB) that holds the data. Adjust the size to your needs. 

> [!NOTE]
> You can also create the files in any place you like and mount them to `/exa/data/storage/` with
> 
> ```shell

> > docker run -v /path/to/dev.x:/exa/data/storage/dev.x`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> docker run -v /path/to/dev.x:/exa/data/storage/dev.x [...]
```

## 1. Create the configuration 

First, you have to create the configuration for the cluster. There are two possible ways to do so:
 

> ### Variante A: Create an `/exa/` directory that stores all persistent data from one container (RECOMMENDED):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Variant A: Create an `/exa/` directory that stores all persistent data from one container (RECOMMENDED):
```

## 1. Create the configuration 

First, you have to create the configuration for the cluster. There are two possible ways to do so:
 

> ### Variante A: Create an `/exa/` directory that stores all persistent data from one container (RECOMMENDED):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Variant A: Create an `/exa/` directory that stores all persistent data from one container (RECOMMENDED):
```

    Size =  # <-- enter volume size here
```
You can also change the volume size using the `exaconf` CLI tool from the Exasol image:
```sh

> docker run --rm -v ""$CONTAINER_EXA:/exa exasol/docker-db:<version>" exaconf modify-volume -n DataVolume1 -s 1TiB

Reviewer 2: broken double-quotes?

You can create device files by executing (**on each node**):

```sh
truncate -s 1G "$CONTAINER_EXA/data/storage/dev.1"
```

This will create a sparse file of 1GB (1000 blocks of 1 MB) that holds the data. Adjust the size of the data file to your needs. Repeat this step to create multiple file devices.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> 
> Each device should be slightly bigger (~1%) than the required space for the volume(s), because a part of it will be reserved for metadata and checksums.

For more information on device management, see [Managing disks and devices](#managing-disks-and-devices).

## 5. Start the cluster

The cluster is started by creating all containers individually and passing each of them its ID from the EXAConf. For `n11` the command would be:

```sh

> docker run --detach --network=host --privileged -v "$CONTAINER_EXA:/exa exasol/docker-db:<version>" init-sc --node-id 11

Reviewer 2: quotes combine volume and image name...

You can create device files by executing (**on each node**):

```shell
truncate -s 1G "$CONTAINER_EXA/data/storage/dev.1"
```

This will create a sparse file of 1GB (1000 blocks of 1 MB) that holds the data. Adjust the size of the data file to your needs. Repeat this step to create multiple file devices.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> 

> > Each device should be slightly bigger (~1%) than the required space for the volume(s), because a part of it will be reserved for metadata and checksums.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Each device should be slightly larger (~1%) than the required space for the volume(s), because a part of it will be reserved for metadata and checksums.
```

You can create file devices by executing (**on each node**):

```sh
truncate -s 1G "$CONTAINER_EXA/data/storage/dev.2"
```

or (alternatively):

```sh
dd if=/dev/zero of="$CONTAINER_EXA/data/storage/dev.2" bs=1M count=1 seek=999
```

This will create a sparse file of 1GB (1000 blocks of 1 MB) that holds the data. Adjust the size to your needs. 

> [!NOTE]
>
> You can also create the files in any place you like and mount them to `/exa/data/storage/` with
> 
> ```sh
> docker run -v /path/to/dev.x:/exa/data/storage/dev.x`.
> ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> 
> Each device should be slightly bigger (~1%) than the required space for the volume(s), because a part of it will be reserved for metadata and checksums.

## Adding devices to EXAConf

After the devices have been created, they need to be added to EXAConf. You can either do this manually by editing EXAConf:

```
[Node : 11]
    [[Disk : disk1]]
        Devices = dev.1, dev.2
```

or use the `exaconf` CLI tool from the Exasol image:

```sh

> docker run --rm -v "$CONTAINER_EXA:/exa exasol/docker-db:<version>" exaconf add-node-device -D disk1 -d dev.2 -n 11

Reviewer 2: again quotes take too many arguments

```

## Adding disks to EXAConf

You can add additional disks to each node in EXAConf (a `disk` is a group of devices that is assigned to a volume). This may be useful if you want to use different devices for different volumes.

Similar to adding devices, you can either manually edit EXAConf …

```
[Node : 11]
    [[Disk : disk1]]
        Devices = dev.1, dev.2
    [[Disk : disk2]]
        Devices = dev.3, dev.4
```

… or use the `exaconf` CLI tool from the Exasol image:

```sh
docker run --rm -v "$CONTAINER_EXA:/exa exasol/docker-dev-7.0.0:juk" exaconf add-node-disk -D disk2 -n 11
docker run --rm -v "$CONTAINER_EXA:/exa exasol/docker-db:<version>" exaconf add-node-device -D disk2 -d dev.3 -n 11

> docker run --rm -v "$CONTAINER_EXA:/exa exasol/docker-db:<version>" exaconf add-node-device -D disk2 -d dev.4 -n 11

Reviewer 2: broken quoting again

You can create file devices by executing (**on each node**):

```shell
truncate -s 1G "$CONTAINER_EXA/data/storage/dev.2"
```

or (alternatively):

```shell
dd if=/dev/zero of="$CONTAINER_EXA/data/storage/dev.2" bs=1M count=1 seek=999
```

This will create a sparse file of 1GB (1000 blocks of 1 MB) that holds the data. Adjust the size to your needs. 

> [!NOTE]
>
> You can also create the files in any place you like and mount them to `/exa/data/storage/` with
> 
> ```shell
> docker run -v /path/to/dev.x:/exa/data/storage/dev.x`.
> ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> 

> > Each device should be slightly bigger (~1%) than the required space for the volume(s), because a part of it will be reserved for metadata and checksums.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Each device should be slightly larger (~1%) than the required space for the volume(s), because a part of it will be reserved for metadata and checksums.
```

## Adding devices to EXAConf

After the devices have been created, they need to be added to EXAConf. You can either do this manually by editing EXAConf:

```
[Node : 11]
    [[Disk : disk1]]
        Devices = dev.1, dev.2
```

or use the `exaconf` CLI tool from the Exasol image:

```shell
docker run --rm -v "$CONTAINER_EXA:/exa" exasol/docker-db:<version> exaconf add-node-device -D disk1 -d dev.2 -n 11
```

## Adding disks to EXAConf

You can add additional disks to each node in EXAConf (a `disk` is a group of devices that is assigned to a volume). This may be useful if you want to use different devices for different volumes.

> Similar to adding devices, you can either manually edit EXAConf …

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to adding devices, you can either manually edit the EXAConf …
```

In order for the database to find the driver, you have to upload it to `drivers/oracle` of the default bucket (which is automatically created if you don't modify EXAConf).

You can use `curl` for uploading, e.g.:

```shell
curl -v -X PUT -T instantclient-basic-linux.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip http://w:PASSWORD@10.10.10.11:2580/default/drivers/oracle/instantclient-basic-linux.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip
```

Replace `PASSWORD` with the `WritePasswd` for the bucket. See [Connecting to BucketFS](#connecting-to-bucketfs) for details.

> [!NOTE]
> 
> The only currently supported driver version is 12.1.0.2.0. Please download the package `instantclient-basic-linux.x64-12.1.0.2.0.zip` from oracle.com and upload it as described above.
 
# Connecting to the database

Connecting to the default Exasol DB inside a Docker container is not different from the "normal" version. You can use any supported client and authenticate with username `sys` and password `exasol`. 

Please refer to the [official manual](https://www.exasol.com/portal/display/DOC/Database+User+Manual) for further information.

## Connecting to BucketFS

> The default port of the BucketFS inside the docker container is `2580`. You must, however, expose this port in the docker command so that you can access it from outside the container. For example by adding `-p 2580:2580` to your `docker run` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default port of the BucketFS inside the docker container is `2580`. You must, however, expose this port in the docker command so that you can access it from outside the container (i.e. by adding `-p 2580:2580` to your `docker run` command).
```
